doc/install_win.md, before:

<!----------------------------------------------------------------------------->
# Install on Windows

## Compiling The Server

The only windows compiler supported for now is MSVC. The server can be compiled
in x64 or x86, in Release or Debug mode.

When downloading dependencies (such as OpenSSL or Boost) you must get the
version corresponding to the compiler version (x86 or x64) you will use, else
the linking will fail.

1. Get Git, and clone the repository
   (https://github.com/kelno/sunstrider.git).

2. Install [CMake][cmake]

3. Install [OpenSSL][openssl] note the directory to which you
   install it. Caution, do not use the 'Light' version.

4. Install [Boost 1.55][boost] or newer to a directory of your choice. Set the
   **environment** variable (not a CMake variable) `BOOST_ROOT` to wherever you
   installed Boost.

5. Run `cmake-gui` and indicate the repository as the source directory, and a
   directory of your choice to hold the compiled artifacts.

6. Click Configure, then tweak the variables that appear. In particular, you
   should make sure that the `SSL_EAY_*` and `LIB_EAY_*` variables point to the
   right version of OpenSSL (usually the one you installed at step 3). Set
   `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` to the location where you want the server to be
   installed. This is where the "INSTALL" project generated by CMake will
   install the binaries.

7. Click Generate, and select your compiler. We use Visual Studio 12 (2013). Be
   sure not the select the 64 bit version!

8. Open the `Sunstrider.sln` solution generated in the build directory.

9. Right-click the `INSTALL` project, then click `build`.

[cmake]:
http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html

[openssl]:
http://slproweb.com/products/Win32OpenSSL.html

[boost]:
http://sourceforge.net/projects/boost/files/boost-binaries/1.55.0/

<!----------------------------------------------------------------------------->
## Setting Up The DB

1. Download [MariaDB][maria_db] (5.5 series) and install it. Be sure to note
   down your root password, and the port you select if it not the default. If
   you don't already have an SQL client, you can install HeidiSQL when proposed
   to do so.

2. Download the world database, e.g [this one][world_db], copy it to the `sql`
   directory in the repository then rename it to `world.sql` (so that it is ignored
   by Git and taken into account by the script at step 3).

3. If this is a first-time setup, switch to the `sql` sub-directory of the
   repository, then run `mysql < create_mysql.sql` then `mysql <
   populate_mysql.sql`.

4. Apply every 'world', 'char', 'auth' updates in the `sql/updates` directory,
   applying them from the lowest revision to the highest.

[maria_db]:
https://downloads.mariadb.org/

[world_db]:
http://www.sunstrider.cf/files/world_2015_04_08_r6592.sql.bz2

<!----------------------------------------------------------------------------->
## Extracting maps, vmaps and dbc.

Follow these steps after compiling the core.

- Copy `bin/zlib1.dll` from the zlib install directory to your burning crusade
  install directory.

- Copy `bin/bzip2.dll` from the bzip2 install directory to your burning crusade
  install directory.

- Copy `src/tools/map_extractor/Release/mapextractor.exe`from the build
  directory to your burning crusade install directory.

- Copy `src/tools/mmaps_generator/Release/mmaps_generator.exe` from the build
  directory to your burning crusade install directory.

- Copy `src/tools/vmap4_extractor/Release/vmap4extractor.exe` from the build
  directory to your burning crusade install directory.

- Copy `src/tools/vmap4_assembler/Release/vmap4assembler.exe` from the build
  directory to your burning crusade install directory.

- Run `mapextractor.exe` in the game directory. This will create two directories
  named `maps` and `dbc`.

- Run `vmap4extractor.exe` in the game directory. This will create a directory
  named `Buildings`.

- Create a directory named `vmaps`, then run `vmap4assembler.exe Buildings
  vmaps` in the game directory.

- Create a directory named `mmaps`, then run `mmaps_generator.exe` in the game
  directory.

- Move the directories `maps`, `dbc`, `vmaps` and `mmaps` from your game
  directory to your server install location. This was the value of the
  `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` variable inside CMake. If you're not sure, you can
  re-run `cmake-gui` to check. You can delete the `Buildings` directory.

<!----------------------------------------------------------------------------->
## Install and Configure the Server

- Copy to your server install directory :

	- `libeay32.dll` from the OpenSSL install directory.
	- `dep/lib/win32_release/libmySQL.dll` (from there or from your MariaDB
      directory)
	- `dep/lib/win32_release/libircclient.dll`

<!-- comment for spacing -->

- Rename `authserver.conf.dist` from your server install directory to
  `authserver.conf`.

- Rename `worldserver.conf.dist` from your server install directory to
  `worldserver.conf`.

- Modify `authserver.conf` and `worldserver.conf` to put in your preferences. In
  particular, you need to tweak the `***DatabaseInfo` options to be able to
  access the database.

Local realmlist entries are already configured for BC and LK, so you don't need
to add one yourself for development. If you need to, just look at the structure
of the `realmlist` table in the `auth` database.

Some dummy accounts are already in the database, from `test1` to `test5`. The
password are the usernames.

<!----------------------------------------------------------------------------->
## Running the Server

### Running From Visual Studio

You need to change the output directory of the executables so that they get put
somewhere where the config files and DLLs are available (typically, the "install
directory").

You may also want to change the working directory to the same folder to be able
to run the worldserver in the visual studio debugger. (If you do don't forget to
also right click the worldserver and set as startup project.)

To change the output directories, right click the `worldserver` project, then
edit Properties > Configuration Properties > Output Directory. Same for the
`authserver` project. Beware that this change will reset each time you
regenerate the Visual Studio Project files using CMake!

Finally, you need to set the working directory to the folder where you put all
those dll and config files, else the server won't be able to find them.

### Running From Windows

By default, the executables and debug informations will be put into
`<build_dir>/src/worldserver/<vs_config>` and
`<build_dir>/src/authserver/<vs_config>`. So for instance
`<build_dir>/src/worldserver/RelWithDebInfo`. Follow the instruction from the
previous section to change that to your install directory.

Alternatively, you can copy them manually to your install directory. Normally,
the INSTALL job should take care of this, but it is currently broken. You need
to change the directory output path to run from VS anyway, so it's not a big
annoyance.

Commit message:

add apply_updates.sh script
Former-commit-id: 1e55c65cf49656fdc03d8f78ff8901265bcd4fd4

doc/install_win.md, after:

<!----------------------------------------------------------------------------->
# Install on Windows

## Compiling The Server

The only windows compiler supported for now is MSVC. The server can be compiled
in x64 or x86, in Release or Debug mode.

When downloading dependencies (such as OpenSSL or Boost) you must get the
version corresponding to the compiler version (x86 or x64) you will use, else
the linking will fail.

1. Get Git, and clone the repository
   (https://github.com/kelno/sunstrider.git).

2. Install [CMake][cmake]

3. Install [OpenSSL][openssl] note the directory to which you
   install it. Caution, do not use the 'Light' version.

4. Install [Boost 1.55][boost] or newer to a directory of your choice. Set the
   **environment** variable (not a CMake variable) `BOOST_ROOT` to wherever you
   installed Boost.

5. Run `cmake-gui` and indicate the repository as the source directory, and a
   directory of your choice to hold the compiled artifacts.

6. Click Configure, then tweak the variables that appear. In particular, you
   should make sure that the `SSL_EAY_*` and `LIB_EAY_*` variables point to the
   right version of OpenSSL (usually the one you installed at step 3). Set
   `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` to the location where you want the server to be
   installed. This is where the "INSTALL" project generated by CMake will
   install the binaries.

7. Click Generate, and select your compiler. We use Visual Studio 12 (2013). Be
   sure not the select the 64 bit version!

8. Open the `Sunstrider.sln` solution generated in the build directory.

9. Right-click the `INSTALL` project, then click `build`.

[cmake]:
http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html

[openssl]:
http://slproweb.com/products/Win32OpenSSL.html

[boost]:
http://sourceforge.net/projects/boost/files/boost-binaries/1.55.0/

<!----------------------------------------------------------------------------->
## Setting Up The DB

1. Download [MariaDB][maria_db] (5.5 series) and install it. Be sure to note
   down your root password, and the port you select if it not the default. If
   you don't already have an SQL client, you can install HeidiSQL when proposed
   to do so.

2. Download the world database, e.g [this one][world_db], copy it to the `sql`
   directory in the repository then rename it to `world.sql` (so that it is ignored
   by Git and taken into account by the script at step 3).

3. If this is a first-time setup, switch to the `sql` sub-directory of the
   repository, then run `mysql < create_mysql.sql` then `mysql <
   populate_mysql.sql`.

4. Apply every 'world', 'char', 'auth' updates in the `sql/updates` directory,
   applying them from the lowest revision to the highest.

   Under bash, this can be achieved by running the `apply_updates.sh` script
   that is in the `sql` directory.

   *When the database creation scripts are updated, those updates are moved to
   the `sql/updates/old` directory and are not needed anymore.*

[maria_db]:
https://downloads.mariadb.org/

[world_db]:
http://www.sunstrider.cf/files/world_2015_04_08_r6592.sql.bz2

<!----------------------------------------------------------------------------->
## Extracting maps, vmaps and dbc.

Follow these steps after compiling the core.

- Copy `bin/zlib1.dll` from the zlib install directory to your burning crusade
  install directory.

- Copy `bin/bzip2.dll` from the bzip2 install directory to your burning crusade
  install directory.

- Copy `src/tools/map_extractor/Release/mapextractor.exe`from the build
  directory to your burning crusade install directory.

- Copy `src/tools/mmaps_generator/Release/mmaps_generator.exe` from the build
  directory to your burning crusade install directory.

- Copy `src/tools/vmap4_extractor/Release/vmap4extractor.exe` from the build
  directory to your burning crusade install directory.

- Copy `src/tools/vmap4_assembler/Release/vmap4assembler.exe` from the build
  directory to your burning crusade install directory.

- Run `mapextractor.exe` in the game directory. This will create two directories
  named `maps` and `dbc`.

- Run `vmap4extractor.exe` in the game directory. This will create a directory
  named `Buildings`.

- Create a directory named `vmaps`, then run `vmap4assembler.exe Buildings
  vmaps` in the game directory.

- Create a directory named `mmaps`, then run `mmaps_generator.exe` in the game
  directory.

- Move the directories `maps`, `dbc`, `vmaps` and `mmaps` from your game
  directory to your server install location. This was the value of the
  `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` variable inside CMake. If you're not sure, you can
  re-run `cmake-gui` to check. You can delete the `Buildings` directory.

<!----------------------------------------------------------------------------->
## Install and Configure the Server

- Copy to your server install directory :

	- `libeay32.dll` from the OpenSSL install directory.
	- `dep/lib/win32_release/libmySQL.dll` (from there or from your MariaDB
      directory)
	- `dep/lib/win32_release/libircclient.dll`

<!-- comment for spacing -->

- Rename `authserver.conf.dist` from your server install directory to
  `authserver.conf`.

- Rename `worldserver.conf.dist` from your server install directory to
  `worldserver.conf`.

- Modify `authserver.conf` and `worldserver.conf` to put in your preferences. In
  particular, you need to tweak the `***DatabaseInfo` options to be able to
  access the database.

Local realmlist entries are already configured for BC and LK, so you don't need
to add one yourself for development. If you need to, just look at the structure
of the `realmlist` table in the `auth` database.

Some dummy accounts are already in the database, from `test1` to `test5`. The
password are the usernames.

<!----------------------------------------------------------------------------->
## Running the Server

### Running From Visual Studio

You need to change the output directory of the executables so that they get put
somewhere where the config files and DLLs are available (typically, the "install
directory").

You may also want to change the working directory to the same folder to be able
to run the worldserver in the visual studio debugger. (If you do don't forget to
also right click the worldserver and set as startup project.)

To change the output directories, right click the `worldserver` project, then
edit Properties > Configuration Properties > Output Directory. Same for the
`authserver` project. Beware that this change will reset each time you
regenerate the Visual Studio Project files using CMake!

Finally, you need to set the working directory to the folder where you put all
those dll and config files, else the server won't be able to find them.

### Running From Windows

By default, the executables and debug informations will be put into
`<build_dir>/src/worldserver/<vs_config>` and
`<build_dir>/src/authserver/<vs_config>`. So for instance
`<build_dir>/src/worldserver/RelWithDebInfo`. Follow the instruction from the
previous section to change that to your install directory.

Alternatively, you can copy them manually to your install directory. Normally,
the INSTALL job should take care of this, but it is currently broken. You need
to change the directory output path to run from VS anyway, so it's not a big
annoyance.
